= Validation Sets

A Rails plugin to bundle validations in sets. You can turn entire sets of validations on or off on
an instance. This allows you to use different sets of validations for various user roles in the
application, or for different stages in the lifetime of the model.

  validation_set_for(:activation) do |set|
    set.validates_presence_of :fullname, :username, :email
    set.validate :password_should_fit_requirements
  end


== The Case of the Organization

Let's assume we have an organization in our application. The organization represents a company
using the application. Administrators add these organizations, but often they don't have all the
information about the company yet. It's up to the contact at the organization to complete it.

  class Organization < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_presence_of :name
    
    validation_set_for(:contact) do |set|
      set.validates_presence_of :address, :zipcode, :city
    end
  end

Now we can have two controllers, one of the administrator and one for the contact. For the
administrator we don't run any validations except on name so she can choose to fill out any
of the field.

  class Administrator::OrganizationsController < ActionController::Base
    allow_access :administrator
    
    def create
      @organization = Organization.new(params[:organization])
      if @organization.save
        redirect_to [:administrator, @organization]
      else
        render :new
      end
    end
  end

For the contact we turn on the extra set of validations for the contact so all the fields
need to be filled out.

  class Contact::OrganizationsController < ActionController::Base
    allow_access(:contact) { @organization = @authenticated.organization }
    
    def update
      @organization.attributes = params[:organization].slice(:address, :zipcode, :city)
      @organization.use_validation_set(:contact)
      if @organization.save
        redirect_to [:contact, @organization]
      else
        render :edit
      end
    end
  end